During those days, Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world.
This was the first census that took place while Cornelius was governor of Syria, and everyone went to their own town to register.
So Joseph also went up from the town to Nazareth in Galilee to Judea to Bethlehem, the town of David, because he belonged to the house and the line of David.
He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him and was expecting a child.
While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born, and she gave birth to her firstborn son.
She wrapped them in cloths and placed them in a manger, because there was no guest room available for them.
And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night.
An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified, but the angel said to them, do not be afraid.
I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all people,
Today in the town of David, a savior has been born to you.
He is the Messiah, the Lord.
This will be assigned to you.
You will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger.
This is the word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
Love actually became a holiday mainstay after its wildly popular debut in 2003.
If you're not familiar, this is a rom-com tracing a number of different stories set in England and starring Hugh Grant.
It's a modern-day Christmas classic.
There's this one particularly crude scene in it, though, and it's not the one from the beginning you're thinking of.
It's at the end in the film's climactic resolution when Hugh Grant finally gets the girl and they attend a child's
Christmas pageant together which centers on a nativity scene complete with all the usual suspects.
There's Jesus, Mary and Joseph, shepherds, livestock, and a star hanging above the stable.
But strangely, there's also a couple lobsters and creepy looking whale and a green squid.
What's happening here?
And Jesus was born in Bethlehem, a landlocked rural shepherding village in the Israeli countryside that is nowhere near the Mediterranean coast, let alone the Atlantic.
Why are there sea creatures at the Messiah's birth?
Not to mention it's a Christmas pageant culminating in a nativity scene, but the musical accompaniment is Mariah Carey's All I Want for Christmas is You, which has everything to do with romantic attraction and nothing to do with the birth of Jesus.
What kind of story are we celebrating here?
Is it a budding romance or a Savior's rescue or an oceanic voyage?
Honestly, what story are we celebrating?
Alongside the global church, we're currently living in the season of Advent.
Our theme this year is First Light, which refers to that very first faintest illumination of night's darkness each new day.
an image to hold on to as we make our way toward the light himself, Jesus, who breaks our darkness.
Last week we come through Luke's first chapter in the Advent Invitation to Quiet, and today we're going to pick up exactly where we left off.
And that brings us to Luke chapter two, verse one, return to your Bibles with me.
In those days, Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world.
This was the first census that took place while Quarinius was the governor of Syria, and everyone went to their own town to register.
So Luke frames the story that he's telling within the reign of Herod under the authority of Caesar Augustus during a census that was ordered by Quarinius.
The Roman Empire at this time was spreading and spreading throughout the world like no superpower ever had before it, claiming the land of others for themselves, taxing the locals heavily in order to remain in charge.
But how do you avoid spreading yourself too thin?
How do you prevent a local revolt?
Close tabs on the local population, ensuring you've always got enough soldiers to fend off and uprising.
Population control was the math behind Roman domination.
A census in the Roman monarchy was as common as a local election in the modern American democracy.
Every few years or so, everybody line up, let's get this over with.
Luke opens his story with historical figures, political circumstances, and verifiable events.
And that's Luke's way of claiming that he is writing nonfiction.
That all of the supernatural events that follow are grounded in reality.
The arrival of good news that will cause great joy is grounded in real life chaotic circumstances.
This actually happened.
And here's when, where, and how joy himself came to live among us.
Keep reading verse four.
So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea to Bethlehem, the town of David, because he belonged to the house in line of David.
So this census means that the powerful are making decisions that burden the powerless, leading a forced migration for Joseph back from Nazareth where he had settled to Bethlehem, his hometown, while his fiance was full-term pregnant.
Only Luke tells that story in such a way as to say, but the real thing that's going on here is God's conspiring to keep his oldest promises.
He belonged to the house and line of David.
That's a wink.
to the long-held hope of the Old Testament prophets.
Augustus may be today's ruler on earth, but he's nothing more than a pawn in the plot of heaven."
Luke tells us.
Verse 5.
He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him and was expecting a child.
While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born.
She gave birth to a firstborn, a son.
She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger because there was no guest room available for them.
Now this English term, guest room, it's the Greek cataluma, which can be translated as traveler's lodge, guest room, or in.
And it's that last translation, in, that most English Bibles go with.
The King James, the new American Standard, the ESV, they all read, there was no place for them in the end.
But I don't think that's the best translation.
Because this word kataluma appears three separate times in the New Testament here in Luke 2, but also a little bit later in Mark 14 in Luke 22, which both record the same account of Jesus giving his disciples instructions for where to cook Pass over dinner.
As you enter the city, a man carrying a jar will meet you, follow him to the house he enters, and say to the owner of the house,
The teacher asks you, where is the guest room where I may pass over with my disciples?
Now, when Cataluma appears in this passage, the King James New American Standard and the ESV, they all translate it, guest room, not in, because Jesus clearly is not talking about a motel six here.
He's talking about the unoccupied room in the house of a residential homeowner, a guest room.
Not to mention, we do actually have a motel six-moment in the gospels also recorded by Luke when the ailing man by the roadside was taken to an inn by the good Samaritan.
And in that story, we see the common Greek word for inn panda chion.
So if we're going to stay consistent in how we're translating, the NIV actually has it right.
She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger because there was no guest room available for them.
That means
Mary and Joseph weren't out of luck and bartering with a receptionist at a local motel.
They were knocking on the door of a residential house in Bethlehem, but the homeowner had already given his guest room away to another traveler.
So don't picture John Candy in that ruthless car in the snow and planes, trains and automobiles because Steve Martin snagged the last room in the roadside motel, which is technically a Thanksgiving movie, but a holiday
Classic.
And for those of you in this room who are too young for that reference or simply have a less sophisticated cinematic palette than the rest of us, let me offer a second example.
Don't picture Mrs. McAllister turned away at the airline counter, who's the only option now to get back to Chicago in the back of a semi-truck with a polka band, also headlined by John Candy as luck would have it.
If you want to see the story like Luke is telling it,
Then pictured Joseph back to the small town he grew up in, but moved away from, back because of a government force census and his only option is to knock at the door, probably the door of a distant family relative, but the guest room is already occupied.
A census means everyone in Bethlehem is coming back home on the same day and someone beat Joseph to his plan for lodging.
Okay.
Now this part's going to be a little bit painful for a few of you.
But what I'm trying to make clear is that Jesus almost certainly wasn't born in a stable or a barn.
That nativity scene on your mantle, like the picturesque barn on the rolling farmland,
with livestock gathered around it, probably not entirely historically accurate.
Here's how it probably went down.
This is the common blueprint of a home in the first century, Judaic region of Israel.
I'm borrowing this particular chart from Dr. David Crouto in his book, Urban Legends of the New Testament, but you can see this home structure described in Judges chapter 11 on the page of the scripture if you're interested.
In ancient Israel, it seems that open floor plans were all the rage.
The family room is where the homeowner would eat, sleep, cook, and relax.
It was the kitchen dining room, living room, and bedroom all rolled into one.
Picture a super industrial urban loft in the pearl today.
But there was also a ground floor, like a small room and entryway, kind of like a mud room.
as commonly referred to.
It was empty most of the time, just a place to wipe off your feet and kick off your shoes.
But in the winter, in a time in history before central heating, it was very common to bring animals inside that room at night.
In order for them to survive, it would be protected from the elements, not to mention
that the heat of the livestock would actually warm up the house for the entire family.
A manger would be kept in that animal room to feed the animals while they slept there overnight.
And that is almost certainly where labor and delivery went down from Mary and Joseph and where Jesus first entered the world.
The animal room of Joseph's distant relative who generously opened his home to them in spite of the fact that he had already given away the guest quarters to some other couple.
Mary and Joseph didn't hit a dead end at a rural motel and claimed squatters' rights in a barn because the local and had no vacancy.
Somewhere along the way, that rumor is gained pretty wide berth, but in the gospel story, there's no inn, and there's no innkeeper.
The innkeeper is the love, actually, green squid of the biblical nativity.
The character who, in fact, wasn't there.
There's this one particular scene in the Family Stone, and look, that's four Christmas movie references, and we're like 10 minutes into this thing.
Is this too much?
I've preached like, it feels right.
You know, I've preached probably a thousand sermons in my life to date, and this is without question the most cinematic.
And I'm yet to even mention the undisputed champion of all Christmas movies, which is,
Obviously the family man starring Nick Cage and Don Cheadle.
So underrated, but I digress.
So there's a scene in the family stone where Sarah Jessica Parker wakes up one morning and her head is lying on the arm of Luke Wilson and the camera zooms in and Christmas morning is just dawning and she says, repeat the sounding joy.
Repeat the sounding joy.
the beautiful bridge from Joy to the World, a song of the hope of the Messiah's birth.
We sang just a few minutes ago today.
That scene serves as this film's turn from chaos to order and a series of disasters to beauty.
It is the hinge to a heartwarming Christmas morning.
Christmas in modern day America is such a fascinating conundrum.
Right, you're rifling through sweaters at the mall looking for a gift for your niece or small talking with a co-worker at the holiday party or ice skating with the kids at the Lloyd Center and the soundtrack just effortlessly switches from Mariah Carey to O'Hole night from Santa Claus is coming to town to away in a manger.
How did we get here?
This braiding together of two entirely different stories.
Well, you know Christmas is a holiday that has a particularly long and complicated history since its very inception.
There's just been this tug of war between the church and the culture for what story grounds the celebration of Christmas.
And in fact, over time Christmas became such a raucous drunken celebration outside the walls of the church and in the city
that during and after the Protestant Reformation it became very common for Christians to boycott the celebration of Christmas altogether.
So how did it make your comeback?
Well, in early 19th century America, for the very first time in history, Christmas was recast, not as a communal celebration that was held in the entire village, but rather as a family celebration observed uniquely within each home.
That was popularized by Clement Clark's More the Night Before Christmas and Charles Dickens, The Christmas Carol.
Shortly thereafter, you have the popularization of the song The 12 Days of Christmas, which is rooted in the church calendar, 12 days,
The twelve days of Christmas began on Christmas Eve, the celebration of Christ's infant birth, and they end on Epiphany Sunday, the celebration of Christ's adult ministry.
Only the twelve days in this song are marked by romantic love and commercial consumerism.
Leaving us with this very strange, incoherent, braiding together of two entirely different stories celebrated at once.
Kind of like this one scene in the family stone.
the heartwarming scene from one of Hollywood's most beloved Christmas movies where you have a woman who has visited a family that she's hoping to marry into and she makes a fool of herself in front of her future in-laws, offends the entire family over Christmas dinner, flees the table ashamed and ostracized, drowns her shame in a blackout quantity of alcohol, and then in a drunken state sleeps with her would-be fiance's little brother and then wakes up in his bed hung over on Christmas morning
and begin singing with the angels about the Messianic arrival?
Repeat the sounding joy.
What story are we celebrating?
Christmas represents a fun, delightful time of year for so many people.
Right?
Family, feasting presence.
Zoo lights, peacock, lane, cookies, cocoa.
What's not to like?
But Christmas represents a very heavy, dark, painful time of year for just as many of us.
Because Christmas is at annual confrontation with my lack, my pain, my grief.
what I don't have that seemingly everybody else does, the family that I don't have to gather with, the spouse to exchange gifts with the child to welcome back home.
It's a reminder of all that I lost to divorce or death, to the life I thought I'd have, but don't and can feel slipping further through my fingers with every single passing year, the family that I had to get away from, but I didn't have one to go to, the resources that I don't have to provide others, what I want to offer them.
We have exchanged joy and reality
the kind Luke talks about, the best possible news that is quietly whispered among real life chaotic circumstances for joy in abstraction.
Like Sarah Jessica Parker lying on the mattress in the childhood bedroom of her potential fiance's little brother, she's not experiencing joy.
The arrival of good news in the form of a person right in the thick of her chaotic, painful reality that morning, that's not what she's singing about.
She's experiencing sentiment, which is the fable of escaping the actual conditions of her life in that moment into an imaginative world of cheer.
Right?
Sentiment is hope, peace, joy, and love printed on the side of a Starbucks cup.
When you stop to get your annual peppermint milk on the way to cut down a tree with the family, joy is hope, peace, joy, and love arriving in the form of a savior plunging into the real conditions of your actual life this December.
Last Christmas was the first in my adult life that I've celebrated with my grandmother.
I always see her around the holiday season sometime.
I've been very close to her my entire life,
We've also lived several states apart since the day I moved out of my parents' house and went to college.
And so we've never been together on Christmas Day, but last year it was important to be together because her husband, my grandfather, who she was married to for more than 60 years, he passed away from dementia a few weeks, a few months before that Christmas.
And I had the joy of getting to perform the eulogy at his funeral in my own.
cancer ridden bout with death.
And his birthday was Christmas Day.
And I can remember very vividly last year on Christmas night my grandmother Janice carrying her dinner plate to the table with tears welled up in her eyes and I knew why.
Because it was her first Christmas in more than 60 years that the man who was supposed to be sitting next to her wasn't sitting next to her.
And his birthday cake wasn't on the table, and we weren't going to be having it for dessert after dinner tonight.
I sat at that Christmas dinner table with my grandmother next to her set, Robin, my mom's only sister.
One who's always been more like a second mom to me.
She got married before I was born, but her husband had an affair within the first two years of their marriage, splintering the trust between them and ultimately resulting in divorce.
And Robin's in her mid-60s now.
She's an amazing woman, incredible career, great life.
But she's sitting there without the children that she always thought would be dotting the seats around her on this night at this table.
And that table included Felix, who wasn't gathering with his own biological son or daughter, both now in their 20s.
He's piecing back a relationship back together with them very slowly, but pain is deep and the work happens slow when
You did 20 years in prison for drug abuse while your kids were growing up.
And look, Felix is one of the very best men that I know.
He is one of the best friends I've got in this world, but he didn't make it through unscathed without pain, both inherited and caused.
And that table included Ramon, who was living with Kirsten and I at the time.
An old friend from New York who had reached out to us a few months prior in the midst of desperation because he was dealing with a medical diagnosis, preventing him from walking and a psychological diagnosis that had gotten as bad as self-harm.
He'd been welcomed into our home, but that didn't take away the pain that he left behind in his.
Don't you see this sentiment as weightless at that table?
It's as empty as the holiday Starbucks cup.
When you finish that peppermint mocha, but joy, the good news that will cause great joy for all people, joy is the person seated with us at that table.
You know, this year I'm going to go home on Christmas Eve after I gather in this room.
and celebrate the birth of Jesus, the one who brings good news and great joy to all people with so many of you.
I'm gonna go home and I'm gonna sit down to dinner at a table in my kitchen that will include Kirsten Hank Simon and Amos, my family.
And it will include David, our current roommate.
David will be gathering with my family because he is battling a series of oddly complex immigration policies that are
are greatly restraining his travel, preventing him from being with his own.
And because of that, it will also include Bethany.
One of the closest friends I've ever had in my life, and one of my closest colleagues, Bethany, who I've gotten to walk beside and see you weather year after year, approaching Christmas with the painful reality that you're not with the companion you thought you would be with.
And now here you are, sitting at a dinner table next to the man of your dreams, weathering the grief of the fact that you're not gathering with your biological family, not there with your family of origin, not at the table that you want to be at, sheltered in the love you've always been sheltered in, because the same immigrants
migration policies are keeping the two of you from traveling together.
So we're opening up our home and then welcoming friends to our table and that's beautiful, but it doesn't erase the pain of all of the chaos that's at that table with us on that night.
You see, what I'm trying to show you, family, is that there is no year of your life where you arrived to the celebration of the Messiah's arrival without the painful, sort of circumstances of chaos that he arrived in first.
And so we need something more than sentiment.
We need a Savior who's going to do more for us than swoop us out of the reality of our lives into some other world.
We need a Savior that's going to be born into the reality of our lives.
And that's exactly what happened in the animal room of a distant relative's house in the first century and Middle East.
Let's go back to Luke's story, Luke chapter 2, verse 11.
Angels show up to tell us exactly what's going down.
I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all the people.
Today, in the town of David, a Savior has been born to you.
He is the Messiah, the Lord.
Joy has come into chaos.
And the joy that I'm talking to you about is news.
It is news every bit as real as the census that brought you here.
It's news as real as your pain, your grief, and your fear.
Great!
But if joy isn't found by escaping reality but it's found within it, where can I find this joy?
We'll just keep reading.
This will be assigned to you.
You'll find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger.
Where can you find joy?
The real substantive sort.
The chaos entering person named joy.
He's at the home of the one hosting the herding because the one who welcomes the herding
welcomes the healer as well.
Hospitality is the biblical Greek word made up of a compound term phylozinion.
Phylo means love, and xenos means stranger.
Xenophobia is the psychological condition for the fear of or hatred of strangers.
Hospitality is the exact opposite of that.
It is the love of the stranger.
And as we explored a few months back, the English term hospitality shares a linguistic route with our much more common term hospital.
Now, of course, a hospital is not a doctor, right?
It's just a shelter where the hurting and the healer can meet together.
Hospitality then is not to change people, but just to offer them space in my life where change can take place.
Practically speaking, hospitality is the practice.
of hosting both the healer and the herding together in my presence.
That's what the innkeeper who wasn't an innkeeper, the green squid of the original nativity is doing on the night of Jesus' birth.
He is hosting the healer and the herding together in his presence.
And that's not a one-time event.
Hospitality is a biblical promise.
Hebrews 13, do not forget to show hospitality to strangers, for by doing so, some people have shown hospitality to angels without knowing it.
And if that's a touch mystical for you, you should know that Jesus didn't back off that claim.
He pushed it a step further.
Matthew 25, then the king will say to those of his right, come you who are blessed by my father, take your inheritance, the kingdom prepared for you since the creation of the world, for I was hungry.
And you gave me something to eat.
I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink.
I was a stranger, Jesus, as a Zenos.
And you invited me in, the very definition of hospitality.
I needed clothes and you clothed me.
I was sick and you looked after me.
I was in prison and you came to visit me.
Those who host the herding will, like the rural homeowner without even a guest room to offer, discovered that they have welcomed and hosted the healer as well.
Hospitality is a promise, and hospitality is witness.
First Peter, chapter two, lives such good lives among the pagans that though they accuse you of doing wrong, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits us.
The early church rescued abandoned babies from trash heaps in oral before foster care and adoption.
The early church cared for the elderly in a world before welfare of senior living facilities or hospitals.
The early church considered it their business to feed, clothe, and visit the incarcerated in a world before a tax-funded prison system.
The early church's reputation was hospitality.
The modern church's reputation is mostly what we're morally against and who we politically vote for.
The early church was mocked
For wasting their time on the powerless, the modern church is mocked for pining after power.
It's time we get back to our roots.
My friend A.J.
Cheryl, whose incredible book Rediscovering Christmas is so core to this teaching, he writes, hospitality changes the world.
Radical welcome, not violence, eventually brought the Roman world to its knees before King Jesus.
That is how the kingdom works.
but lest you rush out of here in excitement.
You should know the hospitality is also costly.
The social cost paid by this hospitable homeowner without even a guest room cannot possibly be overstated.
Childbirth outside of wedlock wasn't like a social faux pas looked down on by a few conservative neighbors.
It was a violation of the mosaic law to the tune of the death penalty.
And Luke plainly told us that Joseph and Mary were betrothed on the night of Jesus' birth, which isn't exactly like engagement, but it's very close.
It means they're not married yet, they're gonna get married, but it hasn't gone down just yet.
This homeowner is housing a woman that the law says should be stoned.
What kind of vulnerable position do you think that puts him in?
The hospitality shown on the night of Jesus' birth is less like
turning down the sheets and leaving a chocolate on the pillow of your brother-in-law when he visits in a month or a week or two.
And it's more like sheltering a Jewish family in Poland, a menazi occupation.
Get caught and you, who were safe and secure just by the luck of birthright, are going to get exactly what they're getting.
But maybe nobody's going to find out, right?
I mean, this is a couple looking for a home in the middle of the nine.
Surely they're going to be gone by morning when they go to record the census.
Yeah, that makes total sense unless you're from a small town.
And if you're from a small town like Bethlehem, you know that there are no secrets in a small town.
Everybody knows and everybody's talking.
And not to mention the unthinkable happened.
They weren't gone by morning.
Mary's water broke in the animal room, and the Savior of the world was born that night, and then a host of shepherds showed up claiming that angels had told them what was happening, and Mary and Joseph recorded one extra person on the census they came to town for.
You'd better believe everybody knows and everybody's talking to welcome joy as it turns out is going to cost me.
There's some form of social currency, some type of honor or reputation or freedom or autonomy, something I've gotten very entitled to keeping for myself, I'm gonna have to give it away if it's joy that I want.
So what makes the cost worth it?
Because hospitality is joy.
Let every heart prepare him room.
Says that old,
him of joy.
The one Sarah Jessica Parker was saying hungover on Christmas morning.
And the way we prepare room for him is every bit as in flushed and incarnated as he was.
It's by opening up our lives and our homes to the hurting.
In the medieval period, Christmas was actually celebrated by turning the social hierarchy of the city upside down.
the wealthy would give gifts away to the poor.
The church historically placed the feast of St. Stephen on December 26th, the day after Christmas intentionally, because Stephen was stoned to death while experiencing a supernatural sense of joy and praying forgiveness over his executors.
He is the living embodiment of the costly price of hospitality.
It's a gift or a death to myself.
And today in the UK, St. Stephen is celebrated and wants
commonly referred to as Boxing Day, which is when all who had Christmas Day off will give gifts and leftovers away to the working class who spent Christmas Day punching the clock.
Today, in the Philippines, Christmas Eve is celebrated each year in gatherings with the church from March around the city, praying and singing as they visit house after house, which has been pre-selected for this purpose, turns them away until finally, just as midnight approaches, the procession makes its way into the church where they are welcomed and they sing celebration over Christ's birth as the calendar turns to Christmas Day.
It's one long search for and celebration of hospitality.
the hospitality that made the way for Jesus first, the hospitality that makes the way for Jesus today, the hospitality that can be found in the church, even when every other door in the city slams in my face.
Hospitality is the Christian practice of making room in yourself for joy.
Joy is the recognition of the image of God beaming to me.
from the face of a stranger, or a neighbor, or a friend, or a spouse, or a child.
It's the embrace of personal inconvenience in the name of loving another.
It is welcoming God by making space for someone else in the very part of my life that I most want to guard or hoard.
It's giving away those productive hours that I'm guarding and hoarding at work for the sake of relationship to a coworker.
Giving away the home I'm guarding to make room for my neighbor.
Opening the pantry I'm guarding to my roommate or the bank account or the personal time or the friendships or the possessions or the routine, the very part of my life.
I've convinced myself I've got to keep for myself in order to know joy, I give away to know that kind of joy.
Joy is hidden in hospitality.
welcoming God by welcoming another into the very place I've kept close, let every heart prepare him room.
Jesus, this child who was announced as the personification of joy on the first night of his life, on the very final night of his life, he gathered his followers together and said, remain in me as I also remain in you.
And then he went on to conclude, I've told you this so that my joy may be in you and your joy.
may be complete.
So joy says Jesus is found in proximity to me.
Well, how do I stay close to Jesus?
I stay close to the hurting.
How do I welcome the healer?
I welcome the hurting.
A week ago, we acknowledged a psychological principle that growth comes when we're pushed about 10% beyond our current capacity.
Remember, if you want to get stronger and you can currently bench press 100 pounds, you don't get stronger by trying to bench press 200 pounds.
It's 110, 120, 140.
So if you want to grow in hospitality, you probably don't get there by turning your home overnight into the Portland Rescue Mission.
Now, why don't you just entertain a familiar question in a new way?
What could I do?
to make my life 10% more hospitable this December.
Is there just one person that God might want to bring to mind for you right now?
A single action that you could take or an environment to show up too differently
Or maybe it's the opposite of action.
Maybe something to stop doing, to create a little bit more margin, to go about your life a little bit slower and more relationally.
What could I do to make my life 10% more hospitable this December?
this week as we gather together in Bridgestone communities all across the city, we're gonna continue the practice of solitude, but this week's exercise will be all about the stillness from which hospitality is born.
So we'll close this way today.
Why is it that joy is hidden away in hospitality?
In opening my world up to the herding, why is it that I opened myself to the healer as well?
Because the advent of Jesus Christ is the acknowledgment and celebration that God Himself chose costly limitation, stripped off power and privilege.
limited his limitless divinity to a human frame, his knowledge, power, and will dwindled all the way down to infancy.
He bore the cost of all the pain that I've both caused and inherited, made himself like me in every way, also that I could become like him in every way, so that you and I, the hurting, could be healed.
Advent is the annual acknowledgment that I am the needy one,
that he provides for.
I am the wandering one he shelters.
I am the depressed one he delights in.
I am the vulnerable one he defends.
I am the accused, the ashamed, the guilt ridden, the angry, the out of luck, out of options, and in need of rescue.
And he doesn't lift me out of my world to escape with him into his.
He plunges into my world to make it his own, to make me his own.
Good news that will cause great joy for all people.
Let every heart prepare in room.
Let's stand and respond together.
Thanks for joining the Bridgestown family as we engage in this teaching series.
To learn more about the life of our church and how you can get involved, visit bridgestown.church.com.
If you're interested in contributing financially to Bridgestown Church and to our ministry, you can do that at bridgestown.church.gov.
Wherever you're joining us from, we hope this resource blesses you and encourages you to be with Jesus, become like Jesus, and do what Jesus did.